Adding documentation for testing tunnel (#10037)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/testing_tunnel.md

| 443  | `api.datadoghq.eu` | Required to get the presigned URL, search for Synthetic tests, get them, trigger them, and poll their results. |

**Note**: Although the tunnel service top level domain is `.com` (and not `.eu`), the endpoint is located in EU (Frankfurt AWS).

{{< /site-region >}}

{{< site-region region="us3" >}}

| Port | Endpoint                                                                                             | Description                                                                                                                             |
| ---- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 443  | `tunnel-us3.synthetics.datadoghq.com`   | Required to open the wss connection from the `datadog-ci` client to the tunnel service. |
| 443  | `api.datadoghq.com` | Required to get the presigned URL, search for Synthetic tests, get them, trigger them, and poll their results. |

{{< /site-region >}}

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Synthetic Testing Tunnnel
kind: documentation
description: Local and CI/CD testing with Datadog Synthetic testing tunnel.
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-synthetic-ci-cd-testing/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Incorporate Datadog Synthetic tests into your CI/CD pipeline"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/internal-application-testing-with-datadog/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Test internal applications with Datadog's testing tunnel and private locations"
- link: "/synthetics/browser_tests/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure a Browser Test"
- link: "/synthetics/api_tests/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure an API Test"

---

<div class="alert alert-warning">
This feature is currently in public beta.
</div>

The Synthetic testing tunnel creates **short lived secure connections between your internal environments and the Datadog infrastructure**, allowing you to **swiftly trigger Synthetic tests on your private applications**.  

> We recommend using the testing tunnel if you are willing to launch Synthetics tests from your **CI/CD pipeline** or against **local** versions of your application without deploying a dedicated and long lasting probing system (such as [private locations][1]). The testing tunnel can also prove helpful if you are looking at triggering tests on **ephemeral cloud environments**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog recommends using the testing tunnel if you are willing to launch Synthetics tests from your **CI/CD pipeline** or against **local** versions of your application without deploying a dedicated and long lasting probing system (such as [private locations][1]). The testing tunnel can also prove helpful if you are looking at triggering tests on **ephemeral cloud environments**.
```

> ## What is it?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is the testing tunnel?
```

The testing tunnel is a functionality that comes with the **[@datadog/datadog-ci][2] NPM package** which is one of the methods provided by Datadog to include your Synthetic tests as part of your CI/CD pipelines. The testing tunnel creates an **end-to-end encrypted HTTP proxy between your infrastructure and Datadog**, meaning that any test requests sent via the CLI are automatically routed through the `datadog-ci` client, allowing Datadog to access and test your internal applications. 

{{< img src="synthetics/tunnel_diagram.png" alt="Synthetic testing tunnel diagram"  style="width:100%;">}}

`datadog-ci` first gets a presigned URL from Datadog (for authentication). It then opens a secure websocket connection (wss) to Datadog's managed locations using the presigned URL. Using SSH connections through the websocket connection, tests are triggered by `datadog-ci` and executed through Datadog's managed locations. 

> **Note:** When using the testing tunnel, your tests' locations will be overriden by a location that depends on your Datadog account region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** When using the testing tunnel, your tests' locations are overriden by a location that depends on your Datadog account region.
```

> ## How to use it?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to use the testing tunnel
```

> `datadog-ci` first gets a presigned URL from Datadog (for authentication). It then opens a secure WebSocket Secure connection (wss) to Datadog's managed locations using the presigned URL. Using SSH connections through the websocket connection, tests are triggered by `datadog-ci` and executed through Datadog's managed locations. Because DNS resolution is performed through the tunnel, it means you can test applications with internal domains or even on the `localhost` of the machine running `datadog-ci`.

Author: ```suggestion
`datadog-ci` first gets a presigned URL from Datadog (for authentication). It then opens a secure WebSocket Secure connection (wss) to Datadog's managed locations using the presigned URL. Using SSH connections through the websocket connection, tests are triggered by `datadog-ci` and executed through Datadog's managed locations.  
Because DNS resolution is performed through the tunnel, it means you can test applications with internal domains or even on the `localhost` of the machine running `datadog-ci`.
```

> As mentioned above, the testing tunnel comes with the [@datadog/datadog-ci][2] NPM package and is available from version [v0.11.0][3] of the package. To learn how to get started using the Datadog CI/CD testing integration, visit [this documentation page][4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned above, the testing tunnel comes with the [@datadog/datadog-ci][2] NPM package and is available from version [v0.11.0][3] of the package. To learn how to get started using the Datadog CI/CD testing integration, see the [Synthetics CI documentation][4].
```

> As mentioned above, the testing tunnel comes with the [@datadog/datadog-ci][2] NPM package and is available from version [v0.11.0][3] of the package. To learn how to get started using the Datadog CI/CD testing integration, see the [related documentation][4].

Author: ```suggestion
As mentioned above, the testing tunnel comes with the [@datadog/datadog-ci][2] NPM package and is available from version [v0.11.0][3] of the package. To learn how to get started using the Datadog CI/CD testing integration, see the [Synthetics CI documentation][4].
```

Once you've set up your client on your local machine or your CI server, you can decide to have your tests launched with the tunnel by appending the command used to launch tests with `--tunnel`. For instance, if you are using a global configuration file, you can use:

```sh
datadog-ci synthetics run-tests --config <GLOBAL_CONFIG_FILE>.json --tunnel
```

> ### Firewall Requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Firewall requirements
```

**Outbound connections** need to be allowed for the following Datadog endpoints:

{{< site-region region="us" >}}

| Port | Endpoint                                                                                             | Description                                                                                                                             |
| ---- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 443  | `tunnel-us1.synthetics.datadoghq.com`   | Required to open the wss connection from the `datadog-ci` client to the tunnel service. |

> | 443  | `intake.synthetics.datadoghq.com` | Required to get the presigned URL & to trigger the Synthetic tests. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 443  | `intake.synthetics.datadoghq.com` | Required to get the presigned URL and to trigger the Synthetic tests. |
```

| 443  | `api.datadoghq.eu` | Required to get the presigned URL, search for Synthetic tests, get them, trigger them, and poll their results. |

**Note**: Although the tunnel service top level domain is `.com` (and not `.eu`), the endpoint is located in EU (Frankfurt AWS).

{{< /site-region >}}

{{< site-region region="us3" >}}

| Port | Endpoint                                                                                             | Description                                                                                                                             |
| ---- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 443  | `tunnel-us3.synthetics.datadoghq.com`   | Required to open the wss connection from the `datadog-ci` client to the tunnel service. |
| 443  | `api.datadoghq.com` | Required to get the presigned URL, search for Synthetic tests, get them, trigger them, and poll their results. |

{{< /site-region >}}

> 

Reviewer: what about gov/us1-fed? if this feature isn't available for that site, we might want to note that.

---

> title: Synthetic Testing Tunnnel

Author: ```suggestion
title: Synthetic Testing Tunnel
```

kind: documentation
description: Local and CI/CD testing with Datadog Synthetic testing tunnel.
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-synthetic-ci-cd-testing/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Incorporate Datadog Synthetic tests into your CI/CD pipeline"
- link: "https://learn.datadoghq.com/course/view.php?id=37"
  tag: "Learning Center"
  text: "Learn how to run Synthetic tests in CI/CD pipelines"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/internal-application-testing-with-datadog/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Test internal applications with Datadog's testing tunnel and private locations"
- link: "/synthetics/browser_tests/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure a Browser Test"
- link: "/synthetics/api_tests/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure an API Test"

---

<div class="alert alert-warning">
This feature is currently in public beta.
</div>

> The Synthetic testing tunnel creates **short lived secure connections between your internal environments and the Datadog infrastructure**, allowing you to **swiftly trigger Synthetic tests on your private applications**.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Synthetic testing tunnel creates short lived secure connections between your internal environments and the Datadog infrastructure, allowing you to swiftly trigger Synthetic tests on your private applications.  
```

> Datadog recommends using the testing tunnel if you are willing to launch Synthetics tests from your **CI/CD pipeline** or against **local** versions of your application without deploying a dedicated and long lasting probing system (such as [private locations][1]). The testing tunnel can also prove helpful if you are looking at triggering tests on **ephemeral cloud environments**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog recommends using the testing tunnel if you are willing to launch Synthetics tests from your CI/CD pipeline or against local versions of your application without deploying a dedicated and long lasting probing system (such as [private locations][1]). The testing tunnel can also prove helpful if you are looking at triggering tests on ephemeral cloud environments.
```

## What is the testing tunnel?

> The testing tunnel is a functionality that comes with the **[@datadog/datadog-ci][2] NPM package** which is one of the methods provided by Datadog to include your Synthetic tests as part of your CI/CD pipelines. The testing tunnel creates an **end-to-end encrypted HTTP proxy between your infrastructure and Datadog**, meaning that any test requests sent via the CLI are automatically routed through the `datadog-ci` client, allowing Datadog to access and test your internal applications. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The testing tunnel is a functionality that comes with the **[@datadog/datadog-ci][2] NPM package** which is one of the methods Datadog provides to include your Synthetic tests as part of your CI/CD pipelines. The testing tunnel creates an end-to-end encrypted HTTP proxy between your infrastructure and Datadog, meaning that any test requests sent through the CLI are automatically routed through the `datadog-ci` client. This allows Datadog to access and test your internal applications. 
```

{{< img src="synthetics/tunnel_diagram.png" alt="Synthetic testing tunnel diagram"  style="width:100%;">}}

> `datadog-ci` first gets a presigned URL from Datadog (for authentication). It then opens a secure WebSocket Secure connection (wss) to Datadog's managed locations using the presigned URL. Using SSH connections through the websocket connection, tests are triggered by `datadog-ci` and executed through Datadog's managed locations.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`datadog-ci` first gets a presigned URL from Datadog for authentication. It then opens a WebSocket Secure connection (wss) to Datadog's managed locations using the presigned URL. Using SSH connections through the websocket connection, tests are triggered by `datadog-ci` and executed through Datadog's managed locations.  
```

> Because DNS resolution is performed through the tunnel, it means you can test applications with internal domains or even on the `localhost` of the machine running `datadog-ci`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because DNS resolution is performed through the tunnel, you can test applications with internal domains or even on the `localhost` of the machine running `datadog-ci`.
```

**Note:** When using the testing tunnel, your tests' locations are overriden by a location that depends on your Datadog account region.

## How to use the testing tunnel

As mentioned above, the testing tunnel comes with the [@datadog/datadog-ci][2] NPM package and is available from version [v0.11.0][3] of the package. To learn how to get started using the Datadog CI/CD testing integration, see the [Synthetics CI documentation][4].

Once you've set up your client on your local machine or your CI server, you can decide to have your tests launched with the tunnel by appending the command used to launch tests with `--tunnel`. For instance, if you are using a global configuration file, you can use:

```sh
datadog-ci synthetics run-tests --config <GLOBAL_CONFIG_FILE>.json --tunnel
```

### Firewall requirements

> **Outbound connections** need to be allowed for the following Datadog endpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allow **Outbound connections** for the following Datadog endpoints:
```
